Eric Boschman (born 25 August 1964) is a Belgian sommelier. He has been awarded many prizes, including the title of "Best Sommelier in Belgium" in 1988.  He is a respected expert on wine from Belgium, and shares his passion through various media (newspapers and magazines, radio and television) and by organizing events.Press article http://www.wine-business-international.com/156-bWVtb2lyX2lkPTMwMyZtZW51ZV9jYXRfaWQ9--en-magazine-magazine_detail.html Biography television sequence (in french) 

 Career 
Eric Boschman grew up in the world of gastronomy. His grandparents, Charles and Claire Boschman, opened the Restaurant "Le Luxembourg" in Charleroi in 1948, and his parents, Jacques Boschman and Claudine Fabre, first opened "Le Roi des Belges" in Anderlues, then, when Eric was 10 years old, "Le Grand RyeuWebsite Le Grand Ryeu http://www.legrandryeu.be/", at Grandrieu. Eric was educated at secondary school in Beaumont and then at the College of Catering and Hotel Management at Namur, followed by a one-year training placement in Strasbourg, France. On his return to Belgium, he began his career as a commis chef at "Barbizon", moving on to "Chez Romeyer", then "Chez Bruneau" and finally "L’Oasis". In 1992, he opened his own restaurant "Le Pain et Le Vin" which he later sold and set up the Food and Wine Academy (FAWA). Today he spends most of his time offering advice on events, then organising them, all over the world. At the same time, he is involved in writing, publishing and the media, including producing many food television programmes, often in the form of culinary and gastronomic advice shows.

 Sommelier 
Eric Boschman was given his enthusiasm for wine by two passionate sommeliers, Simon Decloux and André Leroy. He studied wine and entered many wine competitions and contests. He was crowned "Best Sommelier in Belgium" in 1988. He tries to talk about wine like a storyteller. Today he makes presentations about wine to radio and television audiences, just like he used to do in restaurants. He also works as a wine consultant for many clients, including the Yas Marina Hotel in Abu Dhabi.

 Media personality 
Eric Boschman appears regularly on radio and television and his columns appear in several newspapers and magazines. He is usually billed as a gastronomic expert, but always remains detached and humorous. Newspapers and magazines he writes for include "La Dernière Heure",http://www.dhnet.be, List of his articles published in the daily newspaper "La Dernière Heure" http://www.dhnet.be/search/?query=eric+boschman&Submit=# "Moustique"Moustique magazine website, list of his articles  and "Femmes d'aujourd'hui". On the radio, he has been a contributor to "Laissez-moi dormir" on the Bel RTL channel since 2008. He appears in the television programmes "Père et Fils"and "Sans Chichi"as the character Monsieur Oenophile.Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine:  He has also been involved in promoting and advertising Walloon produce.Official link http://www.epicurien.be/blog/evenements/wallonie-des-saveurs-2012-boschman.asp 

 Writer 
Eric Boschman is also an accomplished wine writer.Complete list of books deposited in the Royal Belgian Library  http://opteron1.kbr.be/cgi-bin/opac.cgi?P0=FKBR&P1=1_JAN&P9=&P5=20&P4=&P2=3&P3=R_TI&P6=BOSCHMAN_ERIC  In addition to his columns and articles in "La Dernière Heure" and "Femmes d’aujourd’hui", he has also written several books on wine, including several wine guides and a book on traditional home cooking, published by Racine.Racine Website http://www.racine.be/content/Racine/wbnl/sitesearch/2/index.jsp  These publications demonstrate Boschman’s hedonistic character, as well as his desire to share his passion for wine.

 Awards and Prizes 
	1982: Master Cheesemonger SOPEXA.
	1988: Best Maître d'hôtel in Belgium.
	1989: Master Sommelier (French wine) SOPEXA.
	1989: Best Sommelier in Belgium (awarded by the Belgian Guild of Sommeliers)
	1990: Ruinart Prize (representing Belgium).
	1990: Semi-Finalist in European Ruinart Trophy contest.
	1992 : Semi-Finalist in the ASI World Sommelier Contest in Brazil
	1994: First Master of Wine award.
	2008 : Fourth Prize winner at the Habanos World Sommelier Championships in Cuba
	2008: First Prize in the Lanson-Fijev Awards from the Belgian wine writers’ association.Article press (in french) http://www.vitisphere.com/breve-54027-Remise-des-premiers-Prix-LANSONFIJEV-de-la-presse-belge-du-vin.html
	2010: Fifth Prize and Finalist in the Habanos World Sommelier Championships in Cuba.

 Bibliography 
	"La Novice et le Sommelier", 2000, La Renaissance du Livre
	"Le Monde à Table" (nine volumes) 2004, Paperview (with Christelle Verheyden)
	World Cuisines: South-East Asia, 2004, Paperview (with Christelle Verheyden)
	World Cuisines: China and Japan, 2004, Paperview (with Christelle Verheyden)
	"Le Goût des Belges", Volume 1 2006, Volume II 2007, Racine, (with Nathalie Derny and Sven Laurent)
	"La Cuisine des Boschman: une histoire de famille" 2009, Luc Pire (with his father Jacques Boschman and his brother Alain Boschman).
	Belgian Wines, 2009, Racine.
	"Solidement Boschman" 2009, La Renaissance du Livre (awarded an International Gourmet Cookbook Award)

 References 

 External links 

FAWA website
Article on E. Boschman and his Proust questionnaire (in french)
Review of « La Cuisine des Boschman » (in french)
Article on televised wine-tasting - funny (in french)
Television recipe 
Wine Academy TV video sequences

Category:1964 births
Category:Living people
Category:Sommeliers