Claire Newell is a Canadian travel expert, media personality, author, luggage designer, journalist and founder and president of Travel Best Bets (1993) which has more than 325 agents.

For the past 32 years she has appeared as a regular contributor on Global TV BC (five times/week), CKNW Radio (three times/week), and is a weekly guest on Global TVs national 'The Morning Show' . Claire has been a guest multiple times onToday, Fox & Friends, Good Day New York, ABC Morning News – Chicago, and CNN Radio.

She has been a spokesperson for Scenic (cruise line), Disney, Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Vancouver International Airport, Conrad Hotels & Resorts, Dukoral for Valneva, Bridgestone Tires, CHASE Sapphire Preferred Card and TD Bank. She has been featured in ads and promotions for Visit Las Vegas, Visit Laguna Beach, Visit Anaheim, Vancouver International Airport, Hong Kong Tourism Board, BC Ferries, Canadian Tourism College, the Canadian Tourism Commission.On the town Open Jaw 

Claire is an author of Travel Best Bets - An Insider's Guide to Taking Your Best Trip, Ever. She has also authored or been featured in articles for SUCCESS, Professional Woman, Today's Parent, Reader's Digest and for various newspapers. She was a co-host for the travel series Operation: Vacation which aired in the US Logo TV, Canada T+E and affiliate stations internationally.Voluntourism seeing and serving the worldSUCCESS Magazine Archived copy 

Claire is a regular speaker at travel events in the U.S. and Canada. Having visited over 74 countries, with many more on her bucket list, Claire provides her audience with helpful tips and deals.

Claire lives in Vancouver, British Columbia with her husband and 2 children.

References

External links
Claire Newell's Website
Disney Family Travel - Claire Newell Bio
The Today Show with Matt Lauer 
ABC Money Matters

Category:Year of birth missing (living people)
Category:Living people
Category:Businesspeople from British Columbia
Category:Canadian women in business
Category:Writers from British Columbia