Nicole Daedone (born ) is an American writer and business executive. She founded and became the CEO of OneTaste in the San Francisco Bay Area.

Early life and education
Nicole Daedone was born in Los Gatos, California and raised by her single mother. Alt URL She earned a bachelor's degree in gender communications and semantics from San Francisco State University in 1994. After graduating, she opened an art gallery, worked as a waitress at a pizzeria, and had a brief stint working as a stripper and an escort. She studied with teachers of yoga and Buddhist meditation, and with Ray Vetterlein, who was in turn inspired by Morehouse, a community of which Daedone was a member. Former students of Baranco set up their own practices and groups, among them The Welcomed Consensus. She lived at The Welcomed Consensus, a community formed by former Morehouse students for two years. Morehouse and the Welcomed Consensus, regarded themselves as "the elite connoisseurs of exquisite gourmet sex." "The Welcomed Consensus had no desire to be mainstream. But Daedone had bigger ideas" according to Ken Blackman, a member of Welcome Consensus and later OneTaste.

Career
Daedone published her first book, Slow Sex, in 2012. Since 2022, she published a number of books on a range of topics. Daedone draws parallels between slow sex and the Slow Food movement associated with chef Alice Waters. With sex as with food, she says, people can overindulge without getting nourishment, or go from one extreme of consuming mindlessly to the other extreme of self-denial. The principles of her philosophy are in her book, Eros Sutras, Volume 1: Principles which has become an Amazon.com best seller in women's spirituality. This volume is part of a 5-volume series of sutras, outlining what Daedone refers to as a feminine path to personal liberation. The series includes The Eros Sutras, Volume 2: Tumescence, The Eros Sutras, Volume 3: Orgasmic Meditation, The Eros Sutras, Volume 4: Relationship, and The Eros Sutras, Volume 5: Justice (publishes 2025).

In addition to The Eros Sutras, Daedone has published five other titles that draw on the Eros philosophy. These includes Play: A Path to Genius, The Age of Eros: A Manifesto of Connectivity and Consciousness, Erotic Justice: Making Social Change from Love, Art of Addiction co-authored alongside Kate Feigin, From Guards to Guardians, The Art of Soulmaking for the Incarcerated authored alongside Beth Wareham, The Art of Soulmaking: A Path to Unconditional Freedom also authored alongside Beth Wareham and The Prison Monastery authored alongside Kate Feigin, Caryn Roth and Marcus Ratnathicam.

OneTaste

OneTaste was cofounded in San Francisco by Nicole Daedone and Robert Kandell. Daedone stated that a Buddhist monk introduced her to orgasmic meditation before she started OneTaste, though she did not name the monk nor the lineage the monk studied under. OneTaste trademarked the "orgasmic meditation" (OM) procedure delivered through the company's classes.

OneTaste originally operated two communal-style "urban retreat" centers, one in San Francisco's Soma District and another in Lower Manhattan. OneTaste then expanded to Los Angeles and London. The company produced media, workshops, weekend retreats, and a coach training program. In 2014, OneTaste was listed as an Inc. 5000 fastest growing company.  

Unconditional Freedom
Daedone also is the visionary of a nonprofit called Unconditional Freedom, which she helped start in 2002 in San Francisco. The nonprofit, which now has programs across the US and extending into Europe, focuses on rehumanization for marginalized populations such as the incarcerated and homeless, with the belief that with dignity restored, people naturally want to contribute. 

Unconditional Freedom’s Art of Soulmaking program guides incarcerated individuals through meditation and self-inquiry practices that can transform the experience of prison to a monastic one. Over 55,000 incarcerated individuals across 1,000+ prisons have participated in the program, which includes contemplative writing, meditation and a pen pal and an art component to channel creativity.

Investigations
In June 2018, Bloomberg Businesweek published a story about OneTaste which included several allegations of misconduct at the company which Daedone led. The article also mentioned that in 2015 the company reached a $325,000 settlement with former employee Ayries Blanck to settle a labor dispute. Five months later, Bloomberg Businessweek published a story that the FBI had begun making an inquiry in to the company. Later publications confirmed the federal investigation and revealed the FBI was investigating for prostitution, sex trafficking, and violations of labor law. The company made $12 million in revenue in 2017. In 2018, OneTaste closed all of their U.S. locations and stopped hosting in-person classes.

In June 2023, Daedone and former head of sales Rachel Cherwitz were indicted on a single count of conspiracy for forced labor. Daedone, who was the company's chief executive officer, was charged by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, New York. Rachel Cherwitz, OneTaste's former head of sales, was also charged. According to the government, Daedone and Cherwitz claimed to be able to help those recover from past sexual trauma or abuse but instead manipulated their victims into debt. 

Former members of the organization testifying about their experience at OneTaste said it "resembled a kind of prostitution ring" where managers frequently ordered staffers to engage in sexual relations with customers.  According to NBC News, the company's staffers sometimes were told "to engage in sexual acts they found uncomfortable or repulsive as a requirement to obtain 'freedom' and 'enlightenment' and demonstrate their commitment to OneTaste and Daedone", the indictment claims, and "resistance … was not tolerated". Meanwhile, according to the indictment, OneTaste did not pay promised wages and commissions to members-turned-workers.

The indictment and investigation have come with unusual public scrutiny.

Legal scholars note that this is the first time in United States history that anyone has been charged with a stand-alone, single count conspiracy for forced labor. The novelty of the prosecution is further drawn in to questions given that the FBI investigated for five years looking for a more substantive crime of sex trafficking. 

The investigation itself has been under heavy legal scrutiny since 2023 when the indictment first unsealed. The spotlight on lead FBI agent, Elliot McGinnis, began in summer 2023 when the prosecution were forced to withdraw a warrant after defense revealed evidence that the agent lied on their affidavit. The controversy continued through 2024 with claims that Special Agent Elliot McGinnis improperly appeared in a Netflix film, tampered with witness testimony, instructed a witness to delete key evidence, instructed another witness to hide key evidence, and breached the defendants Attorney Client Privilege while hiding the evidence from superiors. In December 2024 defense counsel presented evidence that Agent McGinnis tampered with key evidence at the heart of the prosecutors case that would otherwise demonstrate that the evidence was fabricated.

Arrest and indictment
Daedone was charged with conspiring for 12 years to attempt to force people to labor. Former OneTaste sales chief Rachel Cherwitz was arrested in northern California on June 21, 2023. Both were indicted on a forced labor conspiracy charge. , a federal judge in Brooklyn had tentatively set a trial date for January 2025. However that trial date has since been moved to May 2025.

In the media
Daedone is the focus of the 2022 Netflix documentary Orgasm Inc: The Story of OneTaste.

In 2024, Daedone was also the focus of an NBC News profile by Chloe Melas.

Publications

References

Category:American non-fiction writers
Category:American people in the sex industry
Category:Living people
Category:People from Los Gatos, California
Category:American relationships and sexuality writers
Category:San Francisco State University alumni
Category:American women business executives
Category:Writers from California
Category:Year of birth missing (living people)
Category:American women non-fiction writers
Category:21st-century American women
Category:1960s births