Jodie Michelle Grinham (born 26 July 1993) is a British archer who represents Great Britain in the Summer Paralympics. She won a silver medal at the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro and at the 2024 Summer Paralympics she won team gold and individual bronze, while seven months pregnant with her second child.

Personal life
Grinham was born with a short left arm, no fingers and only half a thumb on her left hand. She was the first person with such a disability to attempt archery, so to avoid breaking the rule that the bow must not be attached to the archer, Grinham and her father Symon created a novel way of helping her grip her bow.

She was a student at BPP Law School in Waterloo, London.

Career
thumb|left|Grinham at the 2024 Summer Paralympics|300x300px
Grinham first started archery in 2008. She was first selected for the Great Britain archery team in 2014, and finished seventh at the World Para-archery Championships in Germany in 2015.

2016 Summer Paralympics
Grinham competed in the women's individual compound open and the team compound open events at the 2016 Summer Paralympics.

In the individual event, Grinham reached the quarter-finals, losing to Somayeh Abbaspour of Iran.

In the team event, Grinham partnered John Stubbs. The pair finished the preliminary ranking round seeded 5th of 10 teams with a score of 1,324. After defeating Italy in the quarterfinals and South Korea in semi-finals, Grinham and Stubbs faced China in the gold medal match, but were bested by the Chinese duo of Zhou Jiamin and Ai Xinliang 151-143. This was however enough to earn Grinham a silver medal.

 2024 Summer Paralympics 
Grinham competed in the 2024 Summer Paralympics in Paris in the women's Individual Compound event and the Mixed Team Compound. She achieved a personal best in the individual compound open ranking round, shooting a score of 693 and winning the bronze medal. She also won gold in the mixed team compound alongside Nathan MacQueen.

Grinham was also the first-ever Paralympic athlete known to compete while pregnant, competing at seven-months pregnant.

References

External links
 Profile on World Archery
 video of Grinham's quarter-final Women's individual compound open match with Somayeh Abbaspour of Iran

Category:Living people
Category:1993 births
Category:British female archers
Category:Archers at the 2016 Summer Paralympics
Category:Archers at the 2024 Summer Paralympics
Category:Medalists at the 2024 Summer Paralympics
Category:Paralympic archers for Great Britain
Category:Sportspeople from Cardigan, Ceredigion
Category:Medalists at the 2016 Summer Paralympics
Category:Paralympic medalists in archery
Category:Paralympic gold medalists for Great Britain
Category:Paralympic silver medalists for Great Britain
Category:Paralympic bronze medalists for Great Britain
Category:21st-century British sportswomen
Category:Alumni of BPP University
Category:Members of the Order of the British Empire