David Fernández Miramontes (born 20 January 1976) is a Spanish former professional footballer who played as a striker, currently a scout.

He began his career with Deportivo de La Coruña, but spent most of it in Scottish football. He had a successful spell with Livingston, which earned him a move to Celtic.

Club career
Spain
Born in A Coruña, Galicia, Fernández began his career with hometown club Deportivo de La Coruña. In 1995, he helped the reserves promote to Segunda División B, then was immediately promoted to the first team by manager John Toshack, making his competitive debut in a UEFA Cup Winners' Cup tie against APOEL FC in Cyprus, on 14 September (0–0). His first La Liga appearance took place on 26 November, as he again came on as a substitute for Txiki Begiristain midway through the second half of the 3–1 home win over Real Valladolid.

Fernández finished his first season with Depor with 26 official matches and four goals, three of those coming within less than one month: against Real Sociedad (1–1 home draw), Atlético Madrid (2–2, home) and Real Zaragoza (1–0 Cup Winners' Cup victory). He was eventually unable to break through to a regular starting place, being loaned twice to Segunda División clubs, starting with Sevilla FC in the first part of 1997–98; he spent the entire 1999–2000 campaign with CD Toledo, appearing regularly but suffering relegation, after which he was released by Deportivo.

Scotland
In the 2000 off-season, former FC Barcelona and Scotland player Steve Archibald was negotiating a deal to take control of Scottish First Division side Airdrieonians. Using his contacts in Spain he enticed a number of players from there to try their luck in Scotland, with Fernández among those accepting his offer. Due to financial problems relating to the takeover, the Spanish imports all had to be released in March 2001, but as one of those whose performances for Airdrie had impressed, he (along with teammate Javier Sánchez Broto) was signed up by another club in that level, Livingston, who were on the verge of promotion to the Premier League. He was cup-tied for the latter's appearance in the semi-finals of the Scottish Cup. 

In the 2001–02 season, Fernández featured prominently as the Livi Lions finished in third place and subsequently qualified for the UEFA Cup. He was shortlisted for the SPFA Player of the Year award, and his form prompted Celtic manager Martin O'Neill to spend £1 million to sign him for the Glasgow giants, on a four-year contract.

Despite this investment, however, Fernández struggled to establish himself at Celtic, possibly because his thoughtful style of play did not fit in with the often direct approach of O'Neill's team. He scored his only goal for the team against FK Sūduva Marijampolė in the UEFA Cup, on 3 October 2002. After a first season spent almost exclusively on the bench, his future looked to lie away from Celtic, and he was loaned back to Livingston for 2003–04, where he was part of the side that won the League Cup after beating Hibernian 2–0.

Upon his return to Celtic Park, Fernández was confined to reserve team football and, in August 2005, he was released from his link but remained in Scotland, agreeing to a three-year deal at Dundee United. However, in April 2006, following a change in management at the club, he was informed by new manager Craig Brewster that he would be allowed to leave at the end of the season.

On 18 August 2006, Fernández agreed a severance package with United and promptly joined Kilmarnock on a two-year contract. On 29 October, after a mistimed tackled by Celtic defender Gary Caldwell, he suffered a serious cruciate ligament injury, going on to miss the remainder of the campaign.

Fernández was released by Kilmarnock when his contract expired in May 2010. The 34-year-old subsequently returned to A Coruña, training with amateurs Silva SD to keep fit.

Post-retirement
In summer 2012, Fernández was appointed scout at Premier League side Manchester City.

Honours
Airdrieonians
Scottish Challenge Cup: 2000–01

Celtic
UEFA Cup runner-up: 2002–03
Scottish League Cup runner-up: 2002–03

Livingston
Scottish Football League First Division: 2000–01
Scottish League Cup: 2003–04

Kilmarnock
Scottish League Cup runner-up: 2006–07

References

External links

Category:1976 births
Category:Living people
Category:Spanish men's footballers
Category:Footballers from A Coruña
Category:Men's association football forwards
Category:La Liga players
Category:Segunda División players
Category:Segunda División B players
Category:Deportivo Fabril players
Category:Deportivo de La Coruña players
Category:Sevilla FC players
Category:CD Toledo players
Category:Scottish Football League players
Category:Scottish Premier League players
Category:Airdrieonians F.C. (1878) players
Category:Livingston F.C. players
Category:Celtic F.C. players
Category:Dundee United F.C. players
Category:Kilmarnock F.C. players
Category:Spanish expatriate men's footballers
Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Category:Spanish expatriate sportspeople in Scotland
Category:Manchester City F.C. non-playing staff
Category:Spanish expatriate sportspeople in England