Sayyida Zahra Mostafavi Khomeini (; born 13 November 1940) is an Iranian politician and educator. The daughter of Ruhollah Khomeini, the leader of the Iranian Revolution and subsequent Supreme Leader of Iran, Mostafavi was awarded a PhD in philosophy from the University of Tehran, where she subsequently taught.Mankind’s Need for Religion and Spirituality, Zahra Mostafavi  Retrieved 23 August 2009   Mostafavi has been called the "most prominent" of Khomeini's three daughters, and has become a prominent supporter of women's rights in Iran in addition to Palestinian causes."Khamenei vs. Khomeini"  by Ali Reza Eshraghi , 20 August 2009. Retrieved 23 August 2009

 Political positions 
thumb|right|In the conference of "Commemoration of Lady of Islamic Republic", April 2015.

 Women's rights 
Mostafavi has spoken out in favour of women wearing the hijab, stating it "immunises them from abuse and protects families... if men know there is no question of anything outside the family, they will be more loyal to their wives". She also supports women having the equal right alongside men to enter the fields of politics, academics, and education.‘We believe we are on the right track and victory will be ours,’ Seema Chishti  June 12, 2009. accessed August 23, 2009 Mostafavi serves as Secretary General of the Association of the Women of the Islamic Republic, an organisation advocating for women's participation in Iranian politics.

 Ayatollah Khomeini 
Mostafavi has publicly praised her father and in particular his stance on women's rights, stating his wish for women to play a "full part" in Iranian society and never demanded that her mother do chores on his behalf.Lipstick revolution: Iran's women are taking on the mullahs. Katherine Butler. 26 February 2009 . Retrieved 23 August 2009

Iran–United States relations
Mostafavi has demonstrated a hardline approach on relations between Iran and the United States, saying in 2009 she was "not interested in negotiations with the US".

 2009 presidential election 
In the contested 2009 Iranian presidential election, Mostafavi was reported to have endorsed Mir-Hossein Mousavi. The election was ultimately won by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

 Israel–Palestine conflict 
Mostafavi is a proponent of Palestinian statehood and has warned against Iran normalising relations with Israel. She is also proactive in Palestinian causes, serving as the leader of the Iran-based Society for Defending the Palestinian Nation.

 2013 presidential election 
Following the exclusion of former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani from standing in the 2013 Iranian presidential election by the Guardian Council, Mostafavi wrote a public letter to her father's successor as Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, urging for Rafsanjani's reinstatement as a candidate to prevent the formation of a dictatorship. The decision was upheld, and the election was ultimately won by Hassan Rouhani.

References

Category:20th-century Iranian women politicians
Category:20th-century Iranian politicians
Category:21st-century Iranian women politicians
Category:21st-century Iranian politicians
Category:1940 births
Category:Living people
Category:Musawis
Category:Ruhollah Khomeini
Category:Children of the Supreme Leaders of Iran
Category:Association of the Women of the Islamic Republic politicians
Category:Secretaries-general of political parties in Iran
Category:Politicians from Tehran
Category:Academic staff of the Faculty of World Studies