Elizabeth Farnsworth (born December 23, 1943) is a journalist, author, and filmmaker. She is a former foreign correspondent and former chief correspondent and principal substitute anchor of PBS NewsHour with Jim Lehrer. She has written two books, including a novella, Last Light, which was published by Flint Hills Publishing (March, 2024), and a memoir. Her 2008 documentary, The Judge and the General, (co-directed with Patricio Lanfranco), aired on television around the world, winning many awards. She has reported from Cambodia, Vietnam, Chile, Haiti, Iraq, and Iran, among other places. Having previously lived in Peru, Chile, Los Angeles, and Washington, D.C. for extended periods, she now lives in Berkeley, California.

Early life and education
Farnsworth was born Elizabeth Fink  in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the daughter of Jane (Mills) Fink (1911- 1953) and H. Bernerd Fink (1909–1999), while her father was stationed at Wold–Chamberlain Naval Air Station during WW II (now known as Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport).  From this union, she had one older sister, Marcia (Fink) Anderson (1937–2022).  Shortly after Elizabeth's birth, the family moved (1944) back to Topeka, Kansas, where both her parents had been born and raised. Both of her parents are descended from easterners who came to Kansas as pioneers. Farnsworth's mother's great-grandparents were abolitionists. In 1953, when she was 9 years old, her mother died of cancer. Her father remarried in 1955 to a widow, Ruth (Garvey) Cochener, who had three children from her previous marriage.

Farnsworth graduated from Topeka High School in 1961 and was inducted into the school's Hall of Fame in 1998. She attended Middlebury College, Middlebury, VT, where she graduated magna cum laude in 1965. She earned an M.A. in Latin American History from Stanford University in 1966. She received an honorary doctorate degree from Colby College (2002) and Washburn UniversityWashburn University Alumni Association and Foundation, Ichabod Magazine (Spring-20-21), "Honorary Degrees - Washburn University conferred honorary degrees on four people during the spring 2021 commencement ceremonies" (page 26): "Elizabeth Farnsworth, Doctor of Humane Letters". (2021).

Career
Farnsworth first appeared regularly on public television in 1975 as a panelist covering Latin America on the national television program "World Press", produced by KQED in San Francisco. In the 1970s and 80's she contributed articles to the San Francisco Chronicle, Foreign Policy, and Mother Jones (magazine), among other publications. With Eric Leenson and Richard Feinberg, she wrote about the economic blockade against Chile during the years Salvador Allende was president. That research became a book, El Bloqueo Invisible, in Buenos Aires in 1973.

In 1984 she became a contributing correspondent to The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour, later known as The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer and then PBS News Hour. In 1995 she became chief correspondent and principal substitute anchor, and in 1999 became senior correspondent and head of the San Francisco office. From 1984 until 2005, she reported in print and on television from numerous countries, among them: Vietnam, Cambodia, South Korea, Japan, Chile, Peru, Guatemala, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Israel (the West Bank and Gaza), Botswana, Malawi and Turkey.

Farnsworth was a Fellow at the Center for Art Environment of the Nevada Museum of Art from 2010 to 2013. In June 2013 an exhibit, Fracked: North Dakota's Oil boom, featuring photographs by Terry Evans (photographer) and written by Farnsworth, opened at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. After a year, the exhibit traveled to the North Dakota Museum of Art, and since then it has traveled to other cities in North Dakota.

Farnsworth is a former member of the Board of Directors of the World Affairs Council (Northern California) and currently a member of that organization's Advisory Committee. She also serves on the Advisory Committee of the UC Berkeley School of Law Human Rights Center.

Awards and honors
1984 – San Francisco Film Festivals, Golden Gate Award for The Gospel and Guatemala, co-produced by Farnsworth and Stephen Talbot. The production aired on PBS.
1991 – CINE's Golden Eagle Award for Thanh's War, co-produced by Farnsworth and John Knoop. The production aired on PBS. 
1992 – American Film and Video Festival Blue Ribbon Award and the National Educational Film Festival Award for Thanh's War, co-produced by Farnsworth and John Knoop.
1995 - The Topeka Capital-Journal's 1997 Distinguished Kansan Of The Year Award. 
2001 – New York Festivals, Silver World Medal for TV Programming, The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, AIDS in Africa-Global Help (four-part series). Farnsworth did the reporting for this series that was produced by Joanne Elgart. 
2010 – Alfred I. duPont–Columbia University Award for excellence in broadcast journalism, for The Judge and the General. The production aired on PBS.

Nominations
1991 – San Francisco Bay/ Northern CA Area Emmy nomination for Outstanding Individual Achievement: Writing-program for Thanh's War, written by KQED's, Elizabeth Farnsworth.  
2001 – Emmy Awards nomination: PBS NewsHour 4 part 2001 series, AIDS crisis in Bostwana and Malawi, produced by Joanne Elgart, reported by Elizabeth Farnsworth. 
2008 – Directors Guild of America nomination for Outstanding Directorial Achievement for The Judge and the General, (a feature-length documentary film about the personal transformation of Chilean Judge Juan Guzmán as he tries to bring Augusto Pinochet to justice for human rights crimes), co-produced by Farnsworth and co-producer/director Patricio Lanfranco.  
2009 – Emmy Awards nomination for Best Historical Documentary for The Judge and the General, co-produced by Farnsworth and co-producer/director Patricio Lanfranco.  

Select Interviews of Farnsworth

Select Interviews by Farnsworth
Shimon Peres (Israeli Prime Minister), 
14th Dalai Lama (spiritual leader of the Tibetan people), 
Renée Fleming (opera star), 
Henry Kissinger (American diplomat), 
Amos Oz (Israeli writer), 

Selected works
 Elizabeth Farnsworth  “Last Light” (Berkeley, California, 2024) 
 Elizabeth Farnsworth A train through time (Berkeley, California, 2017) 

References

External links
Elizabeth Farnsworth “Last Light” book website
Mrs. Dalloways Bookstore Elizabeth Farnsworth Launches Her New Novel "Last Light"
Elizabeth Farnsworth “A Train Through Time” book website
Counterpoint Press website bio
word after word, BLOG A Visit with Elizabeth Farnsworth, Author
Elizabeth Fink Farnsworth at Middlebury College

Category:1943 births
Category:Living people
Category:Middlebury College alumni
Category:American television personalities
Category:American women television personalities
Category:Stanford University alumni
Category:People from Topeka, Kansas
Category:Writers from Minneapolis
Category:Topeka High School alumni