Gavin Heffernan (born April 2, 1980) is a Canadian filmmaker/screenwriter/photographer.

He co-wrote the psychological horror feature The Taking of Deborah Logan (2014)  The Taking of Deborah Logan' Is a Netflix Horror Gem  and Paramount's Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension (2015)Paramount has released the poster for Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension with writing partner Adam Robitel. Deadline reported in July 2021, that Heffernan and Robitel had partnered with Darren Aronofsky on a thriller series for Netflix titled The Craving. Deadline - Adam Robitel & Gavin Heffernan Set Up Thriller Series At Netflix With Darren Aronofsky's Protozoa Pictures. In July 2019, Deadline posted that Heffernan and Robitel had teamed up with Sam Raimi on an "Untitled Supernatural Thriller" Deadline - ‘Escape Room' Director Sets Up Untitled Supernatural Thriller At Sony. for Sony Pictures.

Also known for directing experimental visual works, primarily timelapse,Profile SunchaserPictures.com; accessed April 2, 2015, featured in the Rolling Stones' 2015 Zip Code Tour PLSN - The Rolling Stones ZIP CODE tour. as well as their 2016 Desert Trip shows. Heffernan also contributed visuals to Pink Floyd's Roger Waters' 2016 concerts, Paul Simon's 2018 Homeward Bound Farewell Tour, and John Mayer's 2022 Sob Rock tour.   

An alumnus of McGill University and the American Film Institute. While attending McGill in Montreal, Quebec, Gavin wrote, directed, and starred in the feature film Expiration (2003). Though budgeted at a meagre $10,000, Expiration was awarded the Grand Jury Prize in Toronto at the 2004 Canadian Filmmakers' Festival, received a 76% critic score on Rotten Tomatoes, Expiration / Rotten Tomatoes and acclaim from publications Variety, Expiration Variety Review and Ain't it Cool News.Expiration review, aintitcool.com; accessed April 2, 2015. 

His unconventional anti-war documentary Grand Wheel (2008) premiered at SXSW and played more than fifty film festivals in twenty countries. His 2010 collection of experimental shorts about the fall of man titled "Devolution" premiered at the Florida Film Festival and won an Audience Award at the 2010 HollyShorts Film Festival. The sci-fi follow-up "Devolution: Reckoning" premiered at the 2011 Festival du Nouveau Cinema in Montreal.

Variety announced in October 2011 that Heffernan was attached to co-write the screen adaptation of Ray Manzarek's The Poet in Exile, a novel exploring the notion that Jim Morrison of the Doors staged his death in 1971. Variety - Manzarek sets up Morrison tale

Heffernan's timelapse art has been featured in Leonardo DiCaprio's Ice on Fire global warming doc for HBO, Virgin America flights, BBC Earth,"Spectacular New Desert Timelapse". BBC Earth. Bravo's first scripted show Girlfriends' Guide to Divorce, and many other press and TV outlets including The New York Times,"The Push to Reclaim Starry Skies". The New York Times. CNN,"Chasing 'dark skies' to focus on light pollution". CNN. Time,"Two Filmmakers Set Out to Capture the Last Mesmerizing Dark Skies". Time. National Geographic,"Gorgeous New Dreamlapse From Death Valley's Racetrack Playa Lakebed". National Geographic.  CBS News,"Timelapse video discussion", CBS News; accessed April 2, 2015. and Wired."Time-Lapse Video Shows Spectacular Desert Sky at Night". Wired. Borrego Springs, California, named their 2014 town festival after Heffernan's "Borrego Stardance" astro timelapse and October 25 was subsequently named "Gavin Heffernan Day" in San Diego County"NBC San Diego Profile", nbcsandiego.com; accessed April 2, 2015. by Senator Joel Anderson.

In 2015, Heffernan and Harun Mehmedinovic co-founded SKYGLOW, a crowdfunded book and Blu Ray project to tackle the rising danger and damage of urban light pollution. The fundraising campaign generated significant publicity and ended on May 9, 2015, as the fourth most successful Kickstarter campaign ever in the Photobooks category. The SKYGLOW book released in April 2017 at SKYGLOWPROJECT.COM and was created in association with the International Dark Sky Association.

thumb|SKYGLOW event at the Annenberg Photo Space in Los Angeles

Notes

External links
 

Category:1980 births
Category:Film directors from Ontario
Category:Living people
Category:Film festival founders
Category:People from Oakville, Ontario
Category:AFI Conservatory alumni
Category:McGill University alumni