Chioma Ikokwu, (born June 25, 1989) better known as Chioma Goodhair, is a Nigerian entrepreneur and executive coach. She is a co-founder and the CEO of Good Hair Ltd. and Brass and Copper Restaurant & Lounge, alongside Kika Osunde. She is also known for her role in the Real Housewives of Lagos (RHOL) reality show within The Real Housewives franchise.

Early life and education
Chioma Ikokwu was born in Lagos, Nigeria, to Agunze and Uche Ikokwu. She graduated from the University of Birmingham in 2010 with an LL.B degree.  She later earned an LL.M degree in International Environmental Law and International Commercial Arbitration at the University of London (School of Oriental and African Studies).

Career
She met her business partner Kika Osunde at the University of Birmingham where she served as the Social Secretary for the University of Birmingham Afro Caribbean Society (ACS). After completing her Master of Laws degree, Chioma briefly worked at a law and arbitration firm in Lebanon before returning to Nigeria to attend law school. 

She co-founded the hair and beauty brand Good Hair Ltd in England in 2009, which moved to Nigeria in 2014. Ikokwu and Osunde built a beauty hub known as "The Good Hair Space." Chioma Goodhair is part-owner of Brass and Copper, a restaurant and bar in the Good Hair Space in Lekki, Lagos.

She founded the Chioma Ikokwu Start-up Fund Initiative, which focuses on providing capital for small businesses with innovative ideas. She also runs an executive coaching program where she mentors entrepreneurs in business creation, branding, and marketing.

References

Category:1989 births
Category:Living people
Category:Nigerian fashion entrepreneurs
Category:Nigerian women company founders
Category:Nigerian chief executives
Category:Nigerian women chief executives
Category:21st-century Nigerian businesswomen
Category:21st-century Nigerian businesspeople
Category:Igbo businesspeople
Category:21st-century Nigerian lawyers
Category:Nigerian women lawyers
Category:Lawyers from Lagos
Category:Nigerian philanthropists
Category:Nigerian women philanthropists
Category:Participants in Nigerian reality television series
Category:Alumni of SOAS University of London
Category:Alumni of the University of Birmingham
Category:Nigerian Law School alumni