Grégory Poirier (born 9 July 1982) is a French professional football manager and former player who is the head coach of Ligue 2 club Red Star. As a player, he was a midfielder. As a manager, he won two consecutive promotions with Marseille Endoume from Régional 1 to Championnat National 2, and two more with Martigues from Championnat National 2 to Ligue 2.

Managerial career
Poirier was a youth coach at Arles-Avignon before being named first-team manager in 2016, aged 34. In March 2017, he took over at Marseille Endoume, and led them to consecutive promotions from the sixth-tier Régional 1 to the fourth-tier Championnat National 2.

In June 2019, Poirier signed with Saint-Malo in the same league. He resigned the following May with one year left on his contract; the season had been abandoned due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with his team in 9th. He immediately moved to Sedan, where he was tasked with winning promotion to the Championnat National. Having won once and drawn five times in seven games, he was sacked in December 2020, more than one month into another COVID-related hiatus.

In May 2021, Poirier returned to Provence to manage Martigues in the fourth tier. He won promotion in his first season, ending a decade-long exile from the Championnat National. Martigues finished the 2023–24 Championnat National as runners-up to Red Star, thus returning to Ligue 2 for the first time in 22 years.

On 4 June 2024, Poirier succeeded Habib Beye as manager of Red Star.

References

External links
 

Category:1982 births
Category:Living people
Category:Sportspeople from La Rochelle
Category:Footballers from Nouvelle-Aquitaine
Category:French men's footballers
Category:Ligue 2 players
Category:Championnat National players
Category:AC Arlésien players
Category:Nîmes Olympique players
Category:Amiens SC players
Category:Men's association football midfielders
Category:French football managers
Category:AC Arlésien managers
Category:CS Sedan Ardennes managers
Category:FC Martigues managers
Category:Red Star FC managers
Category:Championnat National managers
Category:Championnat National 2 managers
Category:Championnat National 3 managers
Category:21st-century French sportsmen