Katalin Vad (born 16 January 1980), known by her stage name Michelle Wild vad literally means "wild" in Hungarian;, is a Hungarian actress and former pornographic actress who worked mainly for Private Media Group (international) and LUXx Video (Hungary).

Career
Her first adult film, Sex Opera, was shot in 2001, and she subsequently worked repeatedly with the same company, Private Media Group, and the director Kovi, producing such adult films as Brides & Bitches and The Sex Secrets of the Paparazzi. She has also worked with such prominent porn directors as John Leslie (Crack Her Jack 1) and Rocco Siffredi (Animal Trainer 5).

In 2003, Private produced a semi-documentary-style adult film entitled The Private Life of Michelle Wild. The film featured snippets of Wild speaking about her desires, interspersed with scenes from her previous films.

She had a regular column in the men's magazine FHM and co-hosted a late night radio talk show. She met her future husband, a cocktail bartender, when he was a guest on her radio show.Megújult az FHM 

She played "Ivett Janovics", a nurse in a hospital-themed daily soap opera called Jóban Rosszban ("Good Times, Bad Times") on Hungary's TV2.origo.hu: Michelle Wild a Jóban Rosszban csapatában 

Since her retirement from the adult business and the birth of her daughter, she has said, in several interviews in Hungary, that she has completely changed and, although she does not deny her past, she would not take the porn actress road again.

In 2009, she appeared in the documentary The Outsiders.

Awards and nominations
 2003 Venus Award winner – Best Actress (Hungary)2003 Venus Award winners
 2003 Barcelona International Erotic Film Festival Ninfa Award winner – Best Supporting Actress (Hot Rats)
 2004 European X Award winner – Best Actress (Germany)
 2004 AVN Award winner – Best Tease Performance (Crack Her Jack 1)

Partial mainstream filmography
 A Bus Came... (2003), as "The Girl" in the segment "No Comment"
 La memoria de los peces (2004), as "Pamela"
 Nomen est Omen avagy Reszkess Szabó János! (2004)
 Rom-Mánia (2004)
 Dobogó kövek (2010)

References

External links

 
 
 
 

Category:1980 births
Category:21st-century Hungarian actresses
Category:Hungarian female adult models
Category:Hungarian film actresses
Category:Hungarian pornographic film actresses
Category:Living people
Category:People from Sátoraljaújhely