Monica F. Helms (born 8 March 1951) is an American transgender activist, author, and veteran of the United States Navy. She created the best-known transgender flag.

 Education 
Helms received a General AA Degree and an AA in Industrial Television from Glendale Community College in Arizona in 1987 and graduated from Chattahoochee Technical College in 2018 with an AA Degree in Television Production Technology.

 US Navy career 

Helms served in the U.S. Navy from 1970 to 1978, and was assigned to two submarines:  (1972–1976) and  (1976–1978). During her time in the Navy, Helms began dressing as a woman while based in Charleston, South Carolina and says in an interview it was the "deepest, darkest secret in [her] entire life". She was reassigned to the San Francisco area in 1976, and said she "felt like [she] could be out in public as [herself]".

Helms left the Navy in 1978, and joined her hometown's chapter of the United States Submarine Veterans, Inc. in 1996. After transitioning, Helms reapplied in 1998 to the Phoenix chapter of the veteran's group with the name "Monica" and received considerable push-back, including being referred to a more generic veteran's group for women rather than the submarine specific group. Helms eventually prevailed after a few months and is the first trans woman to ever join the organization.

 Activism 
thumb|left|upright=0.7|Transgender pride flag
Helms created a transgender pride flag in 1999, and it was first flown at a Pride Parade in Phoenix, Arizona in 2000. 

Helms founded the Transgender American Veterans Association (TAVA) in 2003, and remained president until 2013. On May 1, 2004, TAVA sponsored the first ever Transgender Veterans March to the Wall.  Fifty trans veterans arrived in DC and visited the Vietnam Memorial to honor people they knew whose names are on The Wall.  They also made history when they became the first openly transgender people to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. They did it again in 2005. Even now, Helms continues to advocate for transgender service members and veterans. She was elected as a delegate to the 2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston, Massachusetts. She was the first openly trans person elected to a DNC Convention from Georgia.

Helms donated her original transgender pride flag to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History, at the first ceremony honoring the addition of a collection of LGBT historical items at the Smithsonian on August 19, 2014.

In June 2019, to mark the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots, an event widely considered a watershed moment in the modern LGBTQ rights movement, Queerty named her one of the Pride50 for "trailblazing individuals who actively ensure society remains moving towards equality, acceptance and dignity for all queer people".

Book
In 2019, Helms released an autobiography titled More than just a flag, detailing major events in her life from childhood, her career in the Navy and activism for the transgender community, published by MB Books.

References

Category:1951 births
Category:Activists from Arizona
Category:Activists from South Carolina
Category:American LGBTQ military personnel
Category:Female United States Navy personnel
Category:Flag designers
Category:LGBTQ people from Arizona
Category:LGBTQ people from South Carolina
Category:American LGBTQ rights activists
Category:Living people
Category:People from Sumter, South Carolina
Category:Transgender military personnel
Category:Transgender women writers
Category:American transgender writers
Category:Glendale Community College (Arizona) alumni