Alex Webster (born October 25, 1969) is an American musician who is the bassist and a co-founder of the death metal band Cannibal Corpse. He is one of two original remaining members, alongside drummer Paul Mazurkiewicz. He is also the bassist of Blotted Science and the supergroup Conquering Dystopia. Before Cannibal Corpse was formed, he was a member of Beyond Death.

 Career 
Early career
Webster was born in Akron, New York. Webster was originally part of the band Beyond Death, with ex-Cannibal Corpse guitarist Jack Owen, in 1987. Both met up with Chris Barnes, Bob Rusay and Paul Mazurkiewicz, all of whom were in the band Tirant Sin. Webster was the one to come up with the band's name, Cannibal Corpse. In an interview, he said that he thought it was a very catchy name for a band.

Later activities
Webster recorded bass for Hate Eternal, Erik Rutan's death metal band. 

In 2005, Alex was contacted by guitarist Ron Jarzombek about a possible collaboration which became Blotted Science, an all-instrumental extreme metal project. They released their debut album, The Machinations of Dementia, in the fall of 2007.

 Equipment 
Webster currently uses Spector 'Alex Webster Signature Edition' (based on Euro 5lx basses), DR Strings, and His signature Hammer Smashed Bass pickups by Seymour Duncan paired with a Darkglass Electronics tone capsule preamp wired for 18 volt operation.

On the first two Cannibal Corpse albums, Webster played a Fender Precision Bass that was purchased for him by his mother for his 19th birthday. 

Personal life
Webster lives with his wife in Oregon, U.S. He is agnostic, though he was "brought up with a fairly religious upbringing [which was] Protestant, Methodist".

Webster is known for his interaction with fans of the band, regularly answering questions on the band's forum.

 Musical influences 
When describing his relationship with music, he has stated "I just always liked music since I was a little kid. Music was always a soundtrack in my head to things going on in my life. I always wanted to play. I wanted to play drums when I was about three. I made a drum out of an old butter container and hit it with tinker toys. I was going to make music. Most people who are musicians didn't have to have anyone tell them to do it. I would never push music on someone, because it is something that doesn't need to be pushed. If you're going to make music, you're going to make it."
Webster has stated that he is a big fan of Slayer, and that if any band could cover a Cannibal Corpse song, it would be Slayer.

Webster's five all-time favorite albums are (in descending order) Accept's Restless and Wild, Morbid Angel's Altars of Madness, Metallica's Master of Puppets, Iron Maiden's Powerslave and Slayer's Reign in Blood, and, in a 2006 interview with LambGoat.com, Webster named his five favourite albums of the past five years as Spawn of Possession's Cabinet, Necrophagist's Epitaph, Aeon's Bleeding the False, Hate Eternal's I, Monarch, and Spastic Ink's Ink Compatible.

Webster named the Morbid Angel album Altars of Madness one of his all-time favourites, citing "Chapel of Ghouls", "Immortal Rites", and "Visions from the Darkside" as his favorite tracks in particular; though prior to naming these three tracks, Webster states that "that whole album is so amazing, it's hard to choose [a favourite]".

Aside from metal, Webster has also expressed a liking for Ohio New Wave band Devo, and, when asked what a musical guilty pleasure of his was, he replied "there's some good songs from the first No Doubt album".

When asked about his favorite Cannibal Corpse song, Webster answered: "I don't know, it would be hard to choose one that's the "best", but one of my favorites is "From Skin to Liquid", mainly because it was so different for us. It showed we didn't necessarily have to be playing at warp drive and have gory lyrics to be heavy."

Honors
The prehistoric giant marine worm species Websteroprion armstrongi is partially named after Webster. Luke Parry, one of the scientists who described the species, said of the name, "Mats and I are both massive metalheads and think Alex Webster is a monstrously good bass player... (He) just seemed like the perfect fit for a giant worm with saw-like jaws."This 400-Million-Year-Old Worm Monster Is Metal as Hell , by Rae Paoletta, at Gizmodo; published February 21, 2017; retrieved March 29, 2017
See also

 Florida death metal

 References 

Category:1969 births
Category:Living people
Category:American rock bass guitarists
Category:American agnostics
Category:American heavy metal bass guitarists
Category:American male bass guitarists
Category:People from Akron, New York
Category:American death metal musicians
Category:Cannibal Corpse members
Category:American male guitarists
Category:Guitarists from New York (state)
Category:20th-century American guitarists
Category:Blotted Science members
Category:Conquering Dystopia members