Amritpal Singh "AP" Dhillon is an Indo-Canadian rapper, singer, and record producer associated with Punjabi music. Five of his singles have peaked on the Official Charts Company UK Asian and Punjabi charts, while "Majhail" and "Brown Munde" have topped Billboard charts. Dhillon, alongside his label-mates Gurinder Gill, Shinda Kahlon, and Gminxr, works as a group under their label, Run-Up Records.

 Early life 
Amritpal Singh Dhillon was born into a Punjabi Sikh family in Mullianwal in the Gurdaspur district of Punjab, India.Harshleen Anand. Old Clips Of AP Dhillon Singing During His College Days Just Raised 'Saada Pyaar' For Him. MensXP. December 14, 2021. He studied at the Little Flower Convent School and completed his graduation in Civil Engineering from Baba Kuma Singh Ji Engineering College in Amritsar. Dhillon pursued a Diploma in Business Administration and Management from Camosun College in Saanich, British Columbia, Canada. He briefly worked at Best Buy before pivoting to music.

 Career 
Dhillon started in 2019 with the single track "Fake" with Shinda Kahlon under their own independent label, Run-Up Records. Later he appeared in the video, credited as the producer, of the track "Faraar" by Gurinder Gill and Shinda Kahlon.

In 2020, his single "Deadly" with producer Gminxr entered the UK Asian chart published by the Official Charts Company, and peaked at number 11.AP Dhillon Chart history:https://www.officialcharts.com/artist/61523/ap-dhillon

AP Dhillon/ Shinda Kahlon:https://www.officialcharts.com/artist/61602/ap-dhillon-shinda-kahlon/

Kahlon/Dhillon/Gill/Gminxr:https://www.officialcharts.com/artist/58654/kahlon-gill-gminxr-dhillon/

Singles on UK Asian Music Chart:

 "Majhail" and "Excuses": 
 "Deadly" and "Droptop":  Also, the song entered the top 5 on the UK Punjabi chart. His next single, "Droptop" with Gurinder Gill also appeared on both UK Asian and UK Punjabi chart. In June 2020, he collaborated with Gurinder Gill and Manni Sandhu for single "Majhail", which topped both the UK Asian and Punjabi chart, and became their best performance till date. In July 2020, he and Gurinder Gill appeared in "Excuses" by Intense, which peaked at number 3 on UK Asian and topped the UK Punjabi chart. In September 2020, he released "Brown Munde" with Gurinder Gill, Gminxr, and Shinda Kahlon. Nav, Sidhu Moose Wala, Money Musik, Anmol Dalwani and Steel Banglez appeared in its music video. The song entered Apple Music chart in Canada. The song debuted at number one on the UK Asian chart, became his second number one on the chart.

In 2020, AP Dhillon released his first Collaborative album, Not by Chance with Gurinder Gill and Money Musik. All seven tracks from the EP charted on the NZ charts and peaked at top five of the Official Punjabi Music chart in the UK.Peaks on the NZ Hot Singles Chart:
 "Saada Pyaar": 
 "Fate", "Takeover", "Chances" and "Goat": 
 "Insane": 
 "Ma Belle": 
 "Desires": 
 "Tere Te": 
 "Summer High": 
 "Wo Noor": 
 "True Stories": 
 "Sleepless": 
 "With You": 
 "Lifestyle" and "Scars": 
 "Problems Over Peace": 
 "Old Money": 
 "Losing Myself" and "315": 

In 2021, AP Dhillon and his team performed a live concert for the first time as part of the "Over The Top – The Takeover Tour" in major 6 cities in India.Erin LeBlanc. Meet the Toronto woman behind the unique mansion that has hosted stars like The Weeknd and Belly. The Star. April 16, 2022. Dhillon partners with Boat for brand association. Dhillon released a collaborative EP "Hidden Gems" with Gurinder Gill and Gminxr in fall 2021.

In 2022, Dhillon collaborated with Amazon Prime Video for the promotion of The Boys (season 3) under which he cues an exclusive version of his track ‘Insane’ in the trailer.

In 2023, Dhillon was the first Punjabi language artist to perform at the 2023 Juno Awards in Edmonton, Canada with his hit song "Summer High".

 Discography 

Not by Chance (2020, with Gurinder Gill and Money Musik)
The Brownprint (2024)

 Filmography 

 Web series 

 Year Title Role Notes2023AP Dhillon: First of a KindMain role (5 episodes)Amazon Prime original

 References 

 External links 

 
 
 

Category:1993 births
Category:Living people
Category:21st-century Canadian male singers
Category:21st-century Canadian rappers
Category:Punjabi-language singers
Category:Punjabi rappers
Category:Punjabi singers
Category:Desi musicians
Category:Canadian people of Punjabi descent
Category:Indian emigrants to Canada
Category:Canadian hip-hop singers
Category:Canadian musicians of Indian descent
Category:Canadian male singer-songwriters
Category:Canadian male rappers
Category:Canadian record producers
Category:Indian male singers
Category:Indian male pop singers
Category:Indian male singer-songwriters
Category:Indian singer-songwriters
Category:Indian hip-hop singers
Category:Camosun College alumni
Category:People from Gurdaspur
Category:People from Gurdaspur district
Category:Musicians from Punjab, India
Category:21st-century Canadian singer-songwriters