Erin McGreehan (born July 1982) is an Irish Fianna Fáil politician who has served as a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Louth constituency since the 2024 general election. She previously served as a Senator from 2020 to 2024, after being nominated by the Taoiseach.

Early life
McGreehan grew up in Castletowncooley, a townland in the north of County Louth, and attended Mullaghbuoy National School and Bush Post Primary School.

Personal life
McGreehan lives on the Cooley Peninsula with her partner, Donal McMorland, and their four children; they run an engineering business.

Political career
Formerly a member of Ógra Fianna Fáil in County Louth, she was elected to serve on the Ógra Fianna Fáil National Executive. She worked as a parliamentary assistant to Senator Diarmuid Wilson for several years.

She served as a member of Louth County Council from 2019 to 2020. In June 2020, she was nominated by the Taoiseach, Micheál Martin, to Seanad Éireann. McGreehan was appointed to the Oireachtas Committee on Disability Matters and the Oireachtas Committee on Children, Equality, Disability, Integration and Youth.

In 2024, McGreehan welcomed the decision of the Oireachtas Committee on Disability Matters to extend the Free Travel Pass to any person medically certified as unfit to drive.

At a selection convention on 8 August 2024 in Dundalk, McGreehan was selected as the Fianna Fáil candidate for the 2024 general election in the Louth constituency.

She is currently a Director of Women's Aid Dundalk. An Táin Arts Centre, Dundalk and a member of Glenmore Athletic Club.

References

External links
Erin McGreehan's page on the Fianna Fáil website

Category:1982 births
Category:Living people
Category:Members of the 26th Seanad
Category:21st-century women members of Seanad Éireann
Category:Politicians from County Louth
Category:Fianna Fáil senators
Category:Nominated members of Seanad Éireann
Category:Fianna Fáil TDs
Category:Members of the 34th Dáil
Category:21st-century women Teachtaí Dála