Danica d'Hondt (born 29 May 1939) is an English-Canadian actress, writer, businesswoman and beauty pageant titleholder. She was a winner of the Miss Canada 1960 and represented her country at Miss World 1960 where she placed Top 18. She has worked in American television and film, and theater productions in the San Francisco area.

Biography
d'Hondt was born in London, England, of an Irish mother and a Belgian father. She is the sister of Canadian Olympic Gold Medalist Walter D'Hondt, the mother of actress America Olivo, the aunt of athlete Gillian d'Hondt, and mother-in-law of actors Christian Campbell and Jason Brooks.

D'Hondt began her career at the age of nine by appearing in a movie at Shepperton Studios in England. She worked in radio, TV and on stage in Canada, where her family emigrated while she was still in school. She graduated from high school in Montreal, and returned to England after attending the University of British Columbia in Vancouver. She worked as a stage actress in London, also performing in radio and TV dramas for the BBC, and then relocated to Toronto, Canada, where she became a CBC-TV game show personality and a talk show host at an early age. She also appeared on TV shows out of New York City, and in summer stock theatre in New York and Illinois. She starred with comic Harvey Korman in Living Venus (1961), a film shot in Chicago in 1960.

D'Hondt's Hollywood career spans the years from 1960 to 1990, during which time she starred in "B" movies, played supporting roles in major Hollywood movies, and performed guest-starring roles on TV shows of the time as The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (1964); The Wild Wild West (1965); Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea (1964); and Tarzan (1966). She turned down the role of "Ginger" in Gilligan's Island (1964) because production stalled, which prevented her from doing other films.

She left Hollywood from 1966 to 1971, during which time she worked as a theatre director in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she also wrote for a magazine, produced educational films and taught acting at her own school, "The Actor's Lab", on Sacramento Street.

Upon her return to Hollywood in 1971, she directed several stage productions, worked as a writer and associate producer in film and television, and did a stint as a television journalist, becoming the Consumer and Financial Reporter to a syndicated daytime magazine show called "Breakaway".

She relocated to Northern California in the 1990s, became active in real estate investing and had two non-fiction books published.

D'Hondt is married to businessman and winemaker Nello Olivo, and they have six children together. The couple lives on a vineyard in the Sierra Foothills, where she writes, teaches, and helps tend their vineyard. The couple also owns a large restaurant and banquet facility in Placerville, California, named "Sequoia".

Filmography
1971: A Step Out of Line ... Doreen
1966: Unkissed Bride ... Dr. Marilyn Richards
1966: Tarzan ... Maggie Calloway
1965: Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea ... Lola Hale
1965: The Wild Wild West ... Roxanne
1965: A Very Special Favor ... Jacqueline
1965: The Man from U.N.C.L.E. ... Lucia Nazarone
1965: Valentine's Day ... Donna
1964: The Cara Williams Show ... Constance (episode "Cara, Girl Genius")
1964: A House Is Not a Home ... Vicki
1964: Bedtime Story ... Miss Knudsen
1964: Wild and Wonderful ... Monique
1964: Mr. Smith Goes to Washington ... Diana
1962: I'm Dickens, He's Fenster ... Dianne
1961: Living Venus ... Peggy Brandon

References
Notes

Sources & further reading
 

External links

 
 movies.yahoo.com

Category:1939 births
Category:Living people
Category:Actresses from London
Category:British businesspeople in real estate
Category:Canadian beauty pageant winners
Category:Canadian expatriate actresses in the United States
Category:Canadian film actresses
Category:Canadian non-fiction writers
Category:Canadian people of Belgian descent
Category:Canadian people of Irish descent
Category:Canadian businesspeople in real estate
Category:Canadian restaurateurs
Category:Women restaurateurs
Category:Canadian theatre directors
Category:Canadian women theatre directors
Category:Canadian winemakers
Category:English beauty pageant winners
Category:English film actresses
Category:English non-fiction writers
Category:English people of Belgian descent
Category:English people of Irish descent
Category:English restaurateurs
Category:English stage actresses
Category:English theatre directors
Category:British women theatre directors
Category:English winemakers
Category:English emigrants to Canada
Category:English expatriate actresses in the United States
Category:Miss Canada winners
Category:Miss World 1960 delegates
Category:University of British Columbia alumni
Category:20th-century English women
Category:20th-century English people