Linton Wells II (born 1946) is an American public servant and educator who served a total of 51 years in government service. He served 26 years in the United States Navy as an officer, and then was appointed by the President of the United States as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, serving through two administrations of both parties, both the Democrat Bill Clinton and the Republican George W. Bush. He wrote many books, articles, and white papers on matters of national security, including important texts related to the use of American military capabilities in global humanitarian operations. His expertise focused on the strategic impacts of technological change and on building resilience to natural and man-made disasters as issues of US national security. He shaped, over five decades of public service, current US Department of Defense directives that link policy and technology with public-private cooperation. His writings significantly altered U.S. and international approaches to civil-military engagement, US policy in global humanitarian assistance, and global public-private partnerships in disaster relief.Charles Hauss, Security 2.0: Dealing with Global Wicked Problems, Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield, pp. 111-113 He has also made fundamental contributions to technical areas that have defined  network-enabled military capabilities and cyberspace operations."Welcome to Dr. Linton Wells II: New Executive Advisor for C4I & Cyber Center," c4i.gmu.edu/2016/02/3604, accessed June 25, 2016 After retiring from public service, he continued to contribute to the international STAR-TIDES network that he had founded in 2007, a consortium of several thousand global nodes comprising agencies, organizations, institutions and individuals in 40+ countries that promote the free exchange of research results on global issues of human security. As of 2024 he is Executive Advisor to the Center for Resilient and Sustainable Communities (C-RASC) at George Mason University and chairs the Advisory Group of the C4I and Cyber Center there. C-RASC has been working with the People-Centered Internet (PCI) on ways to “put humanity at the center of the Internet” and support a variety of revitalization initiatives. He is on the board of PCI, and also the President and CEO of Global Resilience Strategies and Senior Advisor to Resilient Japan.  He was listed by Fortune magazine in 2009 as one of the top 16 "Players of Tech".

Career
Wells spent over 50 years in the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), including 26 years uniformed service in the Navy where he retired as a Captain (O-6). While on active duty he served as Commanding Officer of the USS Joseph Strauss, DDG-16 and Commander of Destroyer Squadron 21. He subsequently served 14 years within the Senior Executive ServicePresident names SES officials, December 2, 1993, accessed February 22, 2016 in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). During his years in The Pentagon he was appointed by President Bush to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information Integration) and DoD Chief Information Officer (CIO). After completing several appointments within the Pentagon, in 2007 he accepted an offer to become the Force Transformation Chair at National Defense University. He was additionally selected in 2010 to direct the NDU Center for Technology and National Security Policy and, later, to be Interim Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS).

His post-government work focused on the impact of rapidly changing technologies on U.S. national security policy, emphasizing the strategic importance of the accelerating and converging developments in Biotechnology, Robotics, Information technology, Nanotechnology and Energy ("BRINE"), a term coined by his colleague Frank Hoffman. He now is a Visiting Distinguished Research Fellow at INSS at NDU, and Executive Advisor to the C4I and Cyber Center in the Volgenau School of Engineering and to transdisciplinary Center for Resilient and Sustainable Communities (C-RASC), both at the George Mason University (GMU). He is widely published on the national security implications of workforce issues, including:
 the replacement of labor by automation and artificial intelligence, 
 defining how innovative learning can contribute to leader development, 
 educational transformation, and 
 improved decision-making for complex (“Wicked”) problems.

He serves on several national and international advisory boards, and is the Managing Partner of Wells Analytics, LLC, and President of Global Resilience Strategies.

 Biography 

 Early life and education 
Wells was born in Luanda, Angola, the son of American foreign correspondent Linton Wells and pioneer aviator Fay Gillis Wells.Lillian F. Brinnon and Howard J. Fried, Fay Gillis Wells: In the Air and on the Air, Albuquerque: The Woodfield Press, 2002, p. 140.  His education included:

 1951-1954 - Brunswick School, Greenwich, CT (grades 1-4)
 1954-1958 - Pine Crest School, Fort Lauderdale, FL (grades 5-8)
 1958-1963 - Browning School, New York City (grades 9-12)
 1963-1967 - U.S. Naval Academy, Bachelor of Science degree in Physics and Oceanography. Trident Scholar and recipient of the Charles N.G. Hendrix award for excellence in oceanography. 
 1971-1975  - Johns Hopkins University from 1971 to 1975 on an Arleigh Burke scholarship,Who's Who in America, 1996, article on Linton Wells II, p. 4413 receiving a Master of Science in Engineering in Mathematical Sciences in 1974, and a PhD in Political Science (International Relations) in 1975.  
 1983 - National Institute for Defense Studies (防衛研究所) in Tokyo, Japan. 
 1994 - Harvard Kennedy School of Government, as a Diplomate of the Senior Officers in National Security Program.

 Navy career 
In twenty-six years of commissioned service he served in a variety of ships as a Surface Warfare Officer. A full roster of his shipboard service includes:

 1967-1969 - , Weapons and Supply Officer
 1969-1970 - , Navigator
 1976-1977 - , Operations Officer
 1980-1981 - , Executive Officer
 1984-1986 - , Commanding Officer
 1989-1991 - Destroyer Squadron 21, Commander

Ashore he served in the Pentagon and on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations (OP 090R).  During his career he acquired experience in operations analysis with particular expertise in the Pacific, Indian Ocean and Middle Eastern affairs through the lens of Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence (C3I)

 Civilian service in the Office of the Secretary of Defense 
Wells served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense from 1977 to 1980 and from 1991 to 2007, with his final position being that of Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information Integration). He served as the Acting Assistant Secretary and DoD Chief Information Officer on two occasions, in 2001 and again in 2004–5. He was a White House political appointee in both the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush administrations.

His other OSD positions included Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (C3I) and Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Policy Support) in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Policy).  He is the author of a well-known 2001 memo on the “unpredictable nature of great power relations” that has been cited by former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld.Cited in Donald Rumsfeld, Rumsfeld's Rules, Harper Collins, 2013, Chapter 5

Throughout his time in government, Wells became known for his transformational contributions in four broad areas:
Network-Enabled Defense, Diplomacy and Development: Providing policy, oversight and guidance for the introduction of network-enabled capabilities across the Department of Defense.
Emergency Preparedness: Aggressively promoting improvements in emergency preparedness and disaster relief, building capacity ahead of crises to mitigate damage, and engaging with non-traditional partners.Hauss, op.cit., pp. 111-113  He also holds several inter-governmental advisory roles defining civil-military cooperation and promoting cross-disciplinary approaches, including reducing the vulnerability of humanitarian activities and Smart Cities to offensive cyberspace operations.
Technology-Policy Integration: Promoting research into the emerging and intersecting policy challenges of cyberspace operations, space, and robotics
East Asian and Middle Eastern security issues: Significant policy analyses related to the defense of Japan and the Persian Gulf region, at the request of the US Department of Defense.

 Civilian awards 
 2014 - Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Medal for Distinguished Public Service
 2012 - Inducted into the Wall of Excellence for US Naval Academy Oceanography
 2008 -  Woodrow Wilson Award for Distinguished Government Service from Johns Hopkins University
 2000, 2001, 2007 - Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service (DoD's highest award to a private citizen) Third Award added a Silver Palm. 
 1995 - Browning School Alumnus Achievement Award
 1987 - The Explorers Club, elected a National Fellow
 1976 -  International Forest of Friendship Honoree
 1975 - Tau Beta Pi (Maryland Alpha chapter)—engineering honorary.
 1966 - Sigma Pi Sigma (now the Society of Physics Students)

 Military awards 
 1991 - Legion of Merit Second Award
 1980 - Defense Superior Service Medal
 1989 - Legion of Merit First Award 
 1982 - Meritorious Service Medal
 1977 - Navy Achievement Medal
 1970 - Navy Commendation Medal
 1970 - National Defense Service Medal
 1986 - Battle "E" Ribbon
 1968 - Vietnam Service Medal
 1970 - Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal
 1991 - Southwest Asia Service Medal

 Personal life 

Wells married Linda Marie Motta in New Bedford, MA in 1976. They have two children: Linton Wells III  and Frank Motta Wells.Who's Who in America, 1996, article on Linton Wells II, p. 4413, op.cit.

 Publications 
Wells has written widely on security studies in English and Japanese journals. He has also co-edited a series of books on international transformation and leader development.

 Books 
Doughty, Ralph, Linton Wells II, and Theodore Hailes, eds. 2015. Innovative Learning: A Key to National Security, Fort Leavenworth: The Army Press.  . 
Wells, Linton II, Theodore C. Hailes, and Michael C. Davies. 2013. Changing Mindsets to Transform Security: Leader Development for an Unpredictable and Complex World, Washington: National Defense University, Center for Technology and National Security Policy.
Kugler, Richard L. and Linton Wells II. 2013. Strategic Shift: Appraising Recent Shifts in U.S. Defense Plans and Priorities, Washington: National Defense University, Center for Technology and National Security Policy.
Neal, Derrick and Linton Wells II, eds. 2010. Capability Development in Support of Comprehensive Approaches Washington: National Defense University, Center for Technology and National Security Policy.
Neal, Derrick, Henrik Friman, Ralph Doughty, and Linton Wells II, eds.  2009. Crosscutting Issues in International Transformation: Interactions and Innovations among People, Organizations, Processes, and Technology  Washington: National Defense University, Center for Technology and National Security Policy.
Lacriox, Eric and Linton Wells II. 1997. Japanese Cruisers of the Pacific War. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. .

He has published more than 30 monographs, book chapters and articles, many of which are available from the National Defense University website.

References

External links

Documents available at the CTNSP web site

Category:1946 births
Category:Living people
Category:United States Navy officers
Category:American male writers
Category:United States Department of Defense officials
Category:Chief information officers
Category:Date of birth missing (living people)
Category:Browning School alumni
Category:United States Naval Academy alumni
Category:Johns Hopkins University alumni
Category: George W. Bush administration personnel