Kameron Necole Simmonds (born 6 December 2003) is a footballer who plays as a forward or defender for the Florida State Seminoles. Born in the United States, she represents Jamaica internationally.

Early life
Kameron Necole Simmonds was born on 6 December 2003 in Virginia to Necole and Greg Simmonds. She has three younger brothers. Despite her father being a former footballer, Simmonds only took up the sport when she was unable to continue training in gymnastics after an injury at the age of 11; beginning football the next year, she trained with her father.

 College career 
Simmonds played for Richmond United until the summer of 2022 when she began her college soccer career at the University of Tennessee for the Tennessee Volunteers. She chose to join Tennessee due to her parents believing in its values; due to encouragement from Jamaica teammate Giselle Washington, who already attended the university; and being inspired by Jamaica legend and former Volunteer Khadija Shaw.

As a true freshman, she made two top 100 best freshman lists, having scored four goals in sixteen appearances. Playing as a substitute, the college highlighted her productivity in her limited minutes, often with multiple shots on goal per game.

International career
In the under-20 national team, Simmonds competed at the 2022 CONCACAF Women's U-20 Championship with the Jamaican U-20 team. She scored two goals at the tournament, watched by her family.

When she made her senior debut on 3 September 2022, in a 0–1 friendly loss to South Korea, she became the third generation of her family to represent Jamaica in senior international football after her father, Greg, and grandfather, Patrick.

Simmonds then competed at the 2023 Cup of Nations, where her team finished in fourth place. On 23 June 2023, she was included in the final Jamaica squad for the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup. She made her World Cup debut in the second group game, coming on for Kayla McKenna in a 1–0 victory over Panama.

References

External links

Tennessee Volunteers profile

Category:2003 births
Category:Living people
Category:American women's soccer players
Category:Women's association football forwards
Category:Women's association football defenders
Category:Jamaican women's footballers
Category:21st-century Jamaican sportswomen
Category:Jamaica women's international footballers
Category:2023 FIFA Women's World Cup players
Category:Tennessee Volunteers women's soccer players
Category:Soccer players from Virginia
Category:People from Chesterfield County, Virginia
Category:21st-century American sportswomen
Category:Florida State Seminoles women's soccer players