Jeannine Hall Gailey (born April 30, 1973) is an American poet. She has published six books of poetry and two books of non-fiction. Her work focuses on pop culture, science and science fiction, fairy tales, and mythology.

 Early life and education 
Gailey was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and raised in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. She earned her Bachelor of Science degree in biology from the University of Cincinnati, Master of Arts in English from the University of Cincinnati, and MFA from Pacific University.

 Career 
In 2012, Gailey was appointed to the position of poet laureate of Redmond, Washington. She was also selected as a member of the 2013 Jack Straw Writers Program. She previously taught at National University and was on the faculty of the Centrum Young Artists Project in Port Townsend, Washington.

Gailey has published six books of poetry, Flare, Corona, Field Guide to the End of the World, The Robot Scientist's Daughter, Unexplained Fevers, She Returns to the Floating World, and Becoming the Villainess.

 Honors 
Flare, Corona was a finalist for the 2024 Washington State Book Award in Poetry. 
Flare, Corona finished third in the 2024 Elgin Awards from the Science Fiction & Fantasy Poetry Association.
Field Guide to the End of the World won the 2017 Elgin Award from the Science Fiction & Fantasy Poetry Association.
Field Guide to the End of the World was a finalist for the Horror Writers Association 2016 Bram Stoker Awards.
The Robot Scientist's Daughter won second place in the 2016 Elgin Awards for full-length poetry books published in 2014 and 2015; presented by the Science Fiction Poetry Association.
Field Guide to the End of the World won the 2015 Moon City Poetry Award.
Unexplained Fevers won second place in the 2014 Elgin Awards for full-length poetry books published in 2013; presented by the Science Fiction Poetry Association.
"Introduction to the Body in Fairy Tales" was featured in The Best Horror of the Year: Volume Six anthology.
Selected by Ellen Bass as a runner-up in the first biennial Phyllis L. Ennes Poetry Contest with an appearance at the Skagit River Poetry Festival.
Selected as a member of the 2013 Jack Straw Writers Program.
Appointed as the second Poet Laureate for the city of Redmond, Washington in 2012.
Awarded a top prize from the Dorothy Sargent Rosenberg Poetry Memorial Fund (2011) for "A Morning of Sunflowers (for Fukushima)"
She Returns to the Floating World won a silver medal in the Florida Publisher's Association 2011 President's Book Award for Poetry
Awarded the top prize from the Dorothy Sargent Rosenberg Poetry Memorial Fund (2007)
Awarded a State Artist Trust GAP Grant (2007)
Two poems from her first full-length book, Becoming the Villainess, appeared in Year's Best Fantasy and Horror (2007).

Books

References

External links
 Official site
 Jack Straw interview and reading (audio)
 Poets and Writers Directory of Writers
 Steel Toe Books
 Poetry Foundation

Category:1973 births
Category:Living people
Category:Pacific University alumni
Category:University of Cincinnati alumni
Category:Writers from New Haven, Connecticut
Category:Municipal Poets Laureate in the United States
Category:American women poets
Category:21st-century American poets
Category:21st-century American women writers