Andras Nagy is a research scientist at the Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research InstituteAzvolinsky, Anne. "New Stem Cell State". The Scientist, 10 December 2014 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, Ontario.  He heads a team of 50 researchers on Project Grandiose, who study the process of creating stem cells."Unlocking the secrets of stem cell generation". phys.org Nagy holds a Canadian Research Chair in stem cells and regeneration.Roy, Baisakhi. "Hungarian-born scientist Dr. Andras Nagy’s latest discovery brings hope for curing many diseases". Canadian Immigrant, 31 August 2011.

Nagy was born in Hungary, and moved to Canada from  Hungary in 1989, joining the Institute"Pioneering Toronto scientist continues to demystify stem cells". Toronto Star, 11 December 2014. after a three-month stint as a visiting scientist.

In 2005, Nagy was the first to create new human embryonic stem cell lines in Canada.

In 2009, he demonstrated how cells could be changed into stem cells more without the introduction of potentially damaging viruses,Drinjakovic, Jovanna. "Toronto-led international research team makes stem-cell breakthrough". Globe and Mail"The Big Promise of a Tiny Cell". University of Toronto Magazine, Spring 2010. and was included that year in Scientific American'''s Top 10 Honor Roll."Andras Nagy'". Bio Business Magazine, Spring 2010.

Nagy and his research group have discovered a new type of stem cell, called the F-Class iPS cell."Researchers discover new class of stem cells". Los Angeles Times.

In 2014, Project Grandiose researchers have produced several major reports, demonstrating advances in stem cell creation which are expected to lead to improved treatments for a number of diseases, and which have been published in Nature and Nature Communications''.

Nagy holds an Adjunct Professorship at Monash University."New stem cell opens door to regeneration". The Australian

References

Category:Living people
Category:Hungarian biologists
Category:Academic staff of Monash University
Category:Place of birth missing (living people)
Category:1951 births