Hologram, also known by his former ring name Aramís, is a Mexican luchador enmascarado (masked professional wrestler). He is signed to All Elite Wrestling (AEW). He is known for his time with Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA), and International Wrestling Revolution Group. Aramís participated in Pro Wrestling Guerrilla's Battle of Los Angeles 2019 event, which was his United States debut.

His real name is not a matter of public record, as is often the case with masked wrestlers in Mexico, where their private lives are kept a secret from the wrestling fans.

Career

 Early career (2010–2018) 
In 2010, Aramís wrestled his first matches on the Mexican independent scene.

In 2015, Aramís founded the group Los Kamikazes del Aire with Iron Kid and Alas de Acero. The group also featured Bandido while Iron Kid toured in Macau for a year. The group had success in IWRG and the independent wrestling scene in Mexico.

 Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (2018–2024) 
In 2018, he began wrestling in Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA) under a free contract where he is allowed to work independently, and has therefore appeared in many other federations and events in the independent scene of Mexico and the United States. He also has fought in Lucha Memes, MexaWrestling and others. In the United States he has fought in Pro Wrestling Guerrilla and participated in their Battle of Los Angeles tournament in 2019.

All Elite Wrestling (2024–present)
In February 2024, Aramís signed with All Elite Wrestling (AEW). In July 2024, All Elite Wrestling (AEW) aired vignettes of a new wrestler called Hologram, which is a gimmick created by AEW owner and head of creative Tony Khan. It was later reported that Aramís would be portraying the character. On the July 20 episode of AEW Collision, Hologram would make his in-ring debut, defeating Gringo Loco. In October 2024, Hologram began a feud with La Faccíon Ingobernable or LFI (Rush, Dralístico, and The Beast Mortos). This led to a 2 out of 3 falls match between Hologram and Mortos at WrestleDream, which Hologram won 2-1. On the October 19 episode of Collision, Hologram was attacked backstage by LFI. This was done to write him off television after suffering an ankle injury.

On the February 8, 2025 episode of Collision, Hologram returned from injury, aiding Komander from an attack by LFI.

Championships and accomplishments
Gladiadores Azteca de Lucha Libre Internacional
GALLI Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Arez
GALLI Indiscutible Championship (1 time, current)
International Wrestling Revolution Group
IWRG Intercontinental Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Imposible
IWRG Rey del Aire Championship (1 time)
Lucha Memes / MexaWrestling
Battle of Naucalpan (2019)
Profesionales de Lucha Libre Mexicana
Nuevos Valore tournament (2012)
Promociones Cara Lucha
Bestiario I tournament (2015)
Warrior Wrestling
Warrior Wrestling Lucha Championship (1 time)

 Pro Wrestling Illustrated
 Ranked No. 247 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2024

Luchas de Apuestas record

Winner (wager)Loser (wager)LocationEventDateNotesAramís (mask)  Agora (hair)  Coacalco, State of Mexico  PROLLM Show    Aramís (mask)  Dragon Negro (mask)  Coacalco, State of Mexico  PROLLM Show    Aramís (mask)  Madison Kid (hair)  Naucalpan, State of Mexico  IWRG Show   Aramís (mask)  Eterno (hair)  Coacalco, State of Mexico  Lucha Memes show    

Footnotes

 References 

 External links 
 

Category:21st-century male professional wrestlers
Category:21st-century Mexican professional wrestlers
Category:Living people
Category:Year of birth missing (living people)
Category:Masked wrestlers
Category:Mexican male professional wrestlers
Category:Professional wrestlers from Mexico City
Category:Professional wrestlers from the State of Mexico
Category:Unidentified wrestlers
Category:People from Coacalco de Berriozábal