Elspeth "Elle" Reeve (born 1981 or 1982) is an American journalist. Before joining CNN as a correspondent in 2019, she reported on the 2017 white-nationalist Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia for HBO's Vice News Tonight. Reeve and Vice News Tonight won a Peabody Award, four Emmy Awards, and a George Polk Award for their reporting.

 Education and career 
Reeve attended the Missouri School of Journalism, earning a Bachelor of Journalism degree in 2005. After graduating, she interned at Time magazine and worked for the Center for Public Integrity in Washington, D.C.

Before joining Vice News, Reeve was a senior editor at The New Republic and politics editor at The Wire. She has also written articles for The Atlantic and The Daily Beast. While working for The New Republic, Reeve was assigned to fact-check allegations by her then-husband Scott Thomas Beauchamp of widespread American war crimes against Iraqi civilians. The allegations were later retracted after facing criticism by conservative bloggers.

Reeve covered the August 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia for Vice News Tonight, during which she interviewed neo-Nazi Christopher Cantwell and other white supremacist demonstrators, capturing soon-to-be-viral footage of attendees carrying tiki torches while chanting "Jews will not replace us!". Her report, entitled Charlottesville: Race and Terror, earned both her and Vice News Tonight a Peabody Award, four Emmy Awards, and a George Polk Award.

In 2018, Fast Company included Reeve on their 2018 list of the "most creative people in business". She was nominated for a Shorty Award for journalism the same year. Reeve joined CNN as a correspondent in 2019.

Personal life
Reeve married United States Army Private Scott Thomas Beauchamp in 2007; they later divorced. On New Year's Eve in 2018, Reeve married Jeremy Greenfield. , Reeve resides in New York City. She gave birth to her first child in February 2024.

Selected publications
 

Notes

References

Further reading
  Excerpt from Black Pill (2024).
 

External links
 

Category:1980s births
Category:Living people
Category:21st-century American women
Category:American reporters and correspondents
Category:American women journalists
Category:CNN people
Category:Missouri School of Journalism alumni
Category:Peabody Award winners
Category:Vice Media