Nourdin Boukhari (; born 30 June 1980) is a Moroccan former professional footballer who played as a midfielder. After retiring, he worked as a youth coach, and is the currently assistant coach of Eredivisie club Sparta Rotterdam.Het tweede leven van Nourdin Boukhari als jeugdtrainer en amateurvoetballer vice.com Born in the Netherlands, he represented Morocco at international level.

Club career
He started his career for Sparta where he stood out for his technical skill and subsequently signed for Ajax where he made his debut against FC Groningen on 1 September 2002. For the 2003–04 season, he was loaned to NAC Breda. After his contract had expired in 2006, he joined French league side Nantes. However, his stay with the French side turned out to be a disappointment, so he was sent on loan to AZ in January 2007. Although not unsuccessful, AZ chose not to buy him and Boukhari returned to Nantes, which was relegated to the Ligue 2. Boukhari was reluctant to play in the second division and on 7 July he returned to Sparta Rotterdam, where he signed a contract for three years. Back at the club where it all started for him, Boukhari became club captain and the face of the 100-year Anniversary of the club.

After spending a season with Sparta Rotterdam, Boukhari was approached early in the transfer window by Saudi Arabian club Al-Ittihad. However, the Saudi Arabian side then refused to pay the transfer fee to Sparta, instead of paying the fee, sending a lawyer to declare that they wanted to cancel the deal. Al-Ittihad manager Gabriel Calderón was reportedly unhappy about Boukhari's lack of match fitness, and asked the board to cancel the transfer. However, the Eredivisie side wanted the transfer to go through: "The transfer is a done deal and we expect to receive the money into our account," said director Peter Bonthuis. The Rotterdam side submitted a complaint to FIFA regarding the Saudi Arabian club's sudden change of action.

In January 2009, Boukhari signed a contract until the end of the season with NAC Breda. In July 2009, he signed three-year deal with Turkish side Kasimpasa SK. He was sent on loan to Polish side Wisła Kraków for the 2010–11 season. After his contract with Kasimpasa had been dissolved, Boukhari signed an amateur deal with NAC Breda until the end of the season. After he had left as a free agent, he again signed an amateur deal with RKC Waalwijk in September 2012, which was turned into a paid deal in January 2013. However, he was released at the end of the season. In January 2014, he signed with Sparta Rotterdam, with which he almost promoted to the Eredivisie. He retired from professional football in June 2014 and became a member of the staff, being responsible for the team's strikers. He started playing for the freshly Hoofdklasse side Magreb '90.

International career
Boukhari chose to represent Morocco in international football. He made his international debut in a November 2001 friendly match against Zambia.

Career Statistics
International
+ Appearances and goals by national team and yearNational teamYearAppsGoalsMorocco200110200230200310200411200520200631200730Total142

Scores and results list Morocco's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Boukhari goal.
+ List of international goals scored by  Nourdin BoukhariNo.DateVenueOpponentScoreResultCompetition1Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium, Rabat, Morocco2–04–0Friendly2Prince Moulay Abdellah Stadium, Rabat, Morocco	4–06–0Friendly

Honours
Ajax
KNVB Cup: 2005–06
Johan Cruyff Shield: 2002, 2005

Wisła Kraków
Ekstraklasa: 2010–11

Personal life
He was the step-father to PSV and Netherlands international winger Noa Lang.

References

External links
 Voetbal International profile 
 
 

Category:1980 births
Category:Living people
Category:Footballers from Rotterdam
Category:Dutch sportspeople of Moroccan descent
Category:Moroccan men's footballers
Category:Morocco men's international footballers
Category:Moroccan expatriate men's footballers
Category:People from Rotterdam
Category:Sparta Rotterdam players
Category:AFC Ajax players
Category:NAC Breda players
Category:FC Nantes players
Category:AZ Alkmaar players
Category:Kasımpaşa S.K. footballers
Category:Wisła Kraków players
Category:Eredivisie players
Category:Eerste Divisie players
Category:Derde Divisie players
Category:Ligue 1 players
Category:Süper Lig players
Category:Ittihad Club players
Category:Expatriate men's footballers in France
Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Category:Ekstraklasa players
Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Poland
Category:Moroccan expatriate sportspeople in Poland
Category:2002 African Cup of Nations players
Category:Men's association football wingers
Category:Men's association football midfielders
Category:SVA Papendorp players
Category:Saudi Pro League players
Category:21st-century Moroccan sportsmen